THOUGH I’M NOT SURE WE UNDERSTAND THE IMPLICATIONS OF
UNDERSTAND THE IMPLICATIONS OF IT YET.
IT YET. BUT THEN THIS AFTERNOON "THE NEW
BUT THEN THIS AFTERNOON "THE NEW YORK TIMES" PUBLISHED A FREAKING
YORK TIMES" PUBLISHED A FREAKING 40-PAGE-LONG, 13,000-WORD
40-PAGE-LONG, 13,000-WORD MIND-BENDING EXPOSE ABOUT THE
MIND-BENDING EXPOSE ABOUT THE PRESIDENT, SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
PRESIDENT, SPECIFICALLY ABOUT HIS MONEY AND HOW HE GOT IT,
HIS MONEY AND HOW HE GOT IT, WHICH TURNS OUT TO BE A
WHICH TURNS OUT TO BE A 180-DEGREE DIFFERENT STORY OF
180-DEGREE DIFFERENT STORY OF THE PRESIDENT’S OWN ACCOUNT OF
THE PRESIDENT’S OWN ACCOUNT OF HOW HE MADE HIS MONEY.
HOW HE MADE HIS MONEY. THE STORY ALSO POTENTIALLY
THE STORY ALSO POTENTIALLY IMPLICATES THE PRESIDENT IN
IMPLICATES THE PRESIDENT IN PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL FRAUD AND TAX
PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL FRAUD AND TAX EVASION.
EVASION. SO -- OKAY.
SO -- OKAY. EVERYBODY ON THE STAFF HERE ON
EVERYBODY ON THE STAFF HERE ON THE SHOW, WE NOW HAVE THESE
THE SHOW, WE NOW HAVE THESE LITTLE POKER CHIPS.
LITTLE POKER CHIPS. OUR SHOW JUST HAD OUR TEN-YEAR
OUR SHOW JUST HAD OUR TEN-YEAR BIRTHDAY, WHICH WE’RE VERY HAPPY
BIRTHDAY, WHICH WE’RE VERY HAPPY ABOUT IT.
ABOUT IT. A BIG MILESTONE FOR US.
A BIG MILESTONE FOR US. NOBODY MAKES IT TO TEN YEARS.
NOBODY MAKES IT TO TEN YEARS. TO CELEBRATE, MY SWEETIE SUSAN
TO CELEBRATE, MY SWEETIE SUSAN BOUGHT EVERYBODY THESE LITTLE
BOUGHT EVERYBODY THESE LITTLE POKER CHIPS.
POKER CHIPS. CAN WE HOLD ONE UP TO THE
CAN WE HOLD ONE UP TO THE CAMERA?
CAMERA? CAN EVEN FOCUS.
CAN EVEN FOCUS. IT SAYS "THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW"
IT SAYS "THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" ON ONE SIDE AND THE OTHER SIDE
ON ONE SIDE AND THE OTHER SIDE IT SAYS LUCKY TEN, BECAUSE WE
IT SAYS LUCKY TEN, BECAUSE WE MADE IT TO TEN YEARS.
MADE IT TO TEN YEARS. IT’S VERY SWEET, RIGHT?
IT’S VERY SWEET, RIGHT? THIS IS OUR STAFF PRESENT FOR
THIS IS OUR STAFF PRESENT FOR TURNING TEN.
TURNING TEN. I LOVE IT.
I LOVE IT. AND IT TURNS OUT TONIGHT IT
AND IT TURNS OUT TONIGHT IT WOULDN’T TAKE LONG TO HELP TELL
WOULDN’T TAKE LONG TO HELP TELL THIS STORY.
THIS STORY. DECEMBER 1990, DONALD TRUMP OWNS
DECEMBER 1990, DONALD TRUMP OWNS A CASINO CALLED THE TRUMP CAST
A CASINO CALLED THE TRUMP CAST UNTIL ATLANTIC CITY.
UNTIL ATLANTIC CITY. HE HAS DONE A VERY BAD JOB
HE HAS DONE A VERY BAD JOB RUNNING THAT CASINO.
RUNNING THAT CASINO. HE HAS WAY OVERSPENT ON
HE HAS WAY OVERSPENT ON RENOVATIONS, OTHERWISE DUMPED
RENOVATIONS, OTHERWISE DUMPED WAY MORE CASH INTO IT THAN THE
WAY MORE CASH INTO IT THAN THE BUSINESS COULD KEEP UP WITH.
BUSINESS COULD KEEP UP WITH. AND ON DECEMBER 17th, 1990, HIS
AND ON DECEMBER 17th, 1990, HIS CASINO, THE TRUMP CASTLE NEEDED
CASINO, THE TRUMP CASTLE NEEDED TO MAKE A PAYMENT, A
TO MAKE A PAYMENT, A MULTIMILLION-DOLLAR INTEREST
MULTIMILLION-DOLLAR INTEREST PAYMENT ON A BIG LOAN THEY HAD
PAYMENT ON A BIG LOAN THEY HAD TAKEN OUT FOR THAT FAILING
TAKEN OUT FOR THAT FAILING CASINO.
CASINO. JUST HOURS BEFORE THAT PAYMENT
JUST HOURS BEFORE THAT PAYMENT WAS DUE, IT REALLY LOOKED LIKE
WAS DUE, IT REALLY LOOKED LIKE TRUMP WAS NOT GOING TO MAKE IT,
TRUMP WAS NOT GOING TO MAKE IT, WHICH WOULD HAVE DIRE
WHICH WOULD HAVE DIRE CONSEQUENCES.
CONSEQUENCES. AND SO HIS DAD, WHO WAS THEN 85
AND SO HIS DAD, WHO WAS THEN 85 YEARS OLD, SENT A BAG MAN TO
YEARS OLD, SENT A BAG MAN TO THIS CASINO, TO DONALD TRUMP’S
THIS CASINO, TO DONALD TRUMP’S CASINO IN ATLANTIC CITY.
CASINO IN ATLANTIC CITY. THE DUDE HE SENT, HIS NAME WAS
THE DUDE HE SENT, HIS NAME WAS HOWARD SNYDER, WALKED INTO
HOWARD SNYDER, WALKED INTO TRUMP’S CASINO IN ATLANTIC CITY.
TRUMP’S CASINO IN ATLANTIC CITY. HE WENT UP TO THE CAGE WHERE ALL
HE WENT UP TO THE CAGE WHERE ALL THE CASHIERS WORK ON THE CASINO
THE CASHIERS WORK ON THE CASINO FLOOR AND HE HANDED THEM A CHECK
FLOOR AND HE HANDED THEM A CHECK FOR $3.35 MILLION.
FOR $3.35 MILLION. THE CASHIERS VERIFIED THAT THE
THE CASHIERS VERIFIED THAT THE CHECK WAS GOOD, AND THE CASINO
CHECK WAS GOOD, AND THE CASINO PROMPTLY HANDED OVER TO HOWARD
PROMPTLY HANDED OVER TO HOWARD SNYDER A BIG PILE OF POKER
SNYDER A BIG PILE OF POKER CHIPS.
CHIPS. HERE YOU GO.
HERE YOU GO. EACH WORTH $5,000.
EACH WORTH $5,000. $3.3 MILLION WORTH OF POKER
$3.3 MILLION WORTH OF POKER CHIPS.
CHIPS. HOWARD SNYDER TOOK THOSE POKER
HOWARD SNYDER TOOK THOSE POKER CHIPS, PUT THEM IN A BAG AND
CHIPS, PUT THEM IN A BAG AND LEFT.
LEFT. HE DID NOT PLAY POKER WITH THEM.
HE DID NOT PLAY POKER WITH THEM. HE DID NOT GAMBLE WITH THEM.
HE DID NOT GAMBLE WITH THEM. HE JUST TOOK THE POKER CHIPS
HE JUST TOOK THE POKER CHIPS AWAY.
AWAY. APPARENTLY THE NEXT DAY IT
APPARENTLY THE NEXT DAY IT TURNED OUT THAT THAT $3.35
TURNED OUT THAT THAT $3.35 MILLION WASN’T ENOUGH.
MILLION WASN’T ENOUGH. DONALD TRUMP IS STILL IN
DONALD TRUMP IS STILL IN TROUBLE.
TROUBLE. STILL NOT GOING MAKE THE
STILL NOT GOING MAKE THE INTEREST PAYMENT.
INTEREST PAYMENT. TRUMP’S DAD THE NEXT DAY WIRED
TRUMP’S DAD THE NEXT DAY WIRED ANOTHER $150,000 TO THAT CASINO.
ANOTHER $150,000 TO THAT CASINO. ONCE AGAIN, THEY CHECKED THAT
ONCE AGAIN, THEY CHECKED THAT THE WIRE WAS GOOD, THE MONEY
THE WIRE WAS GOOD, THE MONEY THERE WAS FROM TRUMP’S DAD.
THERE WAS FROM TRUMP’S DAD. THEY ISSUED ANOTHER $150,000 IN
THEY ISSUED ANOTHER $150,000 IN POKER CHIPS.
POKER CHIPS. $5,000 A CHIP.
$5,000 A CHIP. DUDE PICKED THEM UP, PUT THEM IN
DUDE PICKED THEM UP, PUT THEM IN A BAG, DID NOT GAMBLE WITH THOSE
A BAG, DID NOT GAMBLE WITH THOSE CHIPS.
CHIPS. HE JUST TOOK THEM AND HE LEFT
HE JUST TOOK THEM AND HE LEFT THE BUILDING.
THE BUILDING. POKER CHIPS ARE AWESOME.
POKER CHIPS ARE AWESOME. TAKE IT FROM ME, I NOW HAVE A
TAKE IT FROM ME, I NOW HAVE A NEW HABIT OF PLAYING WITH THEM
NEW HABIT OF PLAYING WITH THEM ALL THE TIME NOW BECAUSE WE HAVE
ALL THE TIME NOW BECAUSE WE HAVE THEM FOR THE SHOW AS LITTLE
THEM FOR THE SHOW AS LITTLE CHAMPY
CHAMPY CHAMPY Y
CHAMPY Y CHAMP CHAMPYS.
CHAMP CHAMPYS. THEY’RE FUN.
THEY’RE FUN. ANOTHER $3.5 MILLION JUST BUYING
ANOTHER $3.5 MILLION JUST BUYING A BIG BAG OF THESE THAT HE GOT
A BIG BAG OF THESE THAT HE GOT TO TAKE HOME.
TO TAKE HOME. AND THEY’RE NEERKTS BUTAT, BUT T
AND THEY’RE NEERKTS BUTAT, BUT T ACTUALLY HAVE INTEGRAL VALUE
ACTUALLY HAVE INTEGRAL VALUE UNLESS YOU’RE GOING SPEND THEM
UNLESS YOU’RE GOING SPEND THEM AT THE CASINO.
AT THE CASINO. HE JUST GOT A BIG BAG OF CHIPS
HE JUST GOT A BIG BAG OF CHIPS AND LEFT WIT.
AND LEFT WIT. $3.5 MILLION.
$3.5 MILLION. THAT WAS ILLEGAL.
THAT WAS ILLEGAL. BUT IT LUIS WAS ALSO HANDY IN
BUT IT LUIS WAS ALSO HANDY IN THE MOMENT WHEN DONALD TRUMP WAS
THE MOMENT WHEN DONALD TRUMP WAS UP AGAINST THE DEADLINE FROM THE
UP AGAINST THE DEADLINE FROM THE BANK THAT $3.5 MILLION, IT SORT
BANK THAT $3.5 MILLION, IT SORT OF LOOKED LIKE GAMBLING INCOME
OF LOOKED LIKE GAMBLING INCOME FOR THE CASINO THAT CAME IN JUST
FOR THE CASINO THAT CAME IN JUST IN TIME SO THE CASINO COULD MAKE
IN TIME SO THE CASINO COULD MAKE ITS INTEREST PAYMENT.
ITS INTEREST PAYMENT. OF COURSE, IT WASN’T GAMBLING
OF COURSE, IT WASN’T GAMBLING INCOME FOR THE CASINO.
INCOME FOR THE CASINO. IT WAS JUST DONALD TRUMP’S DAD
IT WAS JUST DONALD TRUMP’S DAD TRANSFERRING $3.5 MILLION TO HIS
TRANSFERRING $3.5 MILLION TO HIS SON WITHOUT PAYING ANY TAXES ON
SON WITHOUT PAYING ANY TAXES ON IT, TO BAIL HIS SON OUT SO HE
IT, TO BAIL HIS SON OUT SO HE COULD BAIL OUT THE BANK.
COULD BAIL OUT THE BANK. ULTIMATELY THEY GOT CAUGHT FOR
ULTIMATELY THEY GOT CAUGHT FOR THAT BY GAMBLING REGULATORS.
THAT BY GAMBLING REGULATORS. THEY HAD TO PAY A $65,000 FINE
THEY HAD TO PAY A $65,000 FINE FOR PULLING OFF THAT SCHEME WITH
FOR PULLING OFF THAT SCHEME WITH THE POKER CHIPS THAT THEY DID
THE POKER CHIPS THAT THEY DID NOT GAMBLE WITH.
NOT GAMBLE WITH. BUT IN THE END, $65,000 FINE,
BUT IN THE END, $65,000 FINE, WHO CARES?
WHO CARES? SMALL POTATOES, RIGHT?
SMALL POTATOES, RIGHT? IT WORKED.
IT WORKED. THIS IS ONE OF THE MANY
THIS IS ONE OF THE MANY ANECDOTES THAT "THE NEW YORK
ANECDOTES THAT "THE NEW YORK TIMES" RECOUNTS TODAY ABOUT HOW
TIMES" RECOUNTS TODAY ABOUT HOW DONALD TRUMP’S ENTIRE LIFE HAS
DONALD TRUMP’S ENTIRE LIFE HAS BEEN BANKROLLED TO SPECTACULAR
BEEN BANKROLLED TO SPECTACULAR EFFECT BY HIS DAD, WHICH HE HAS
EFFECT BY HIS DAD, WHICH HE HAS ALWAYS DENIED.
ALWAYS DENIED. THIS ANECDOTE ABOUT THE POKER
THIS ANECDOTE ABOUT THE POKER CHIPS IS ACTUALLY ONE THAT WE’VE
CHIPS IS ACTUALLY ONE THAT WE’VE SEEN REPORTED BEFORE.
SEEN REPORTED BEFORE. ACTUALLY, SHORTLY AFTER IT
ACTUALLY, SHORTLY AFTER IT HAPPENED, THIS HAPPENED IN
HAPPENED, THIS HAPPENED IN DECEMBER 1990.
DECEMBER 1990. "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" WROTE
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" WROTE A STORY ABOUT IT IN JANUARY OF
A STORY ABOUT IT IN JANUARY OF 1991, AND IT’S INTERESTING.
1991, AND IT’S INTERESTING. THERE IS EVEN A LITTLE BIT OF
THERE IS EVEN A LITTLE BIT OF FORESHADOWING FOR ALL OF NEWS
FORESHADOWING FOR ALL OF NEWS THE WAY THAT STORY WAS INITIALLY
THE WAY THAT STORY WAS INITIALLY REPORTED.
REPORTED. "WALL STREET JOURNAL" BROKE THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" BROKE THE STORY ABOUT THE POKER CHIP
STORY ABOUT THE POKER CHIP SCHEME AND DONALD TRUMP’S DAD’S
SCHEME AND DONALD TRUMP’S DAD’S BAG MAN IN JANUARY OF 1991.
BAG MAN IN JANUARY OF 1991. AT FEW MONTHS LATER, "THE WALL
AT FEW MONTHS LATER, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" HAD TAKEN THAT
STREET JOURNAL" HAD TAKEN THAT REPORTER OFF THE DONALD TRUMP
REPORTER OFF THE DONALD TRUMP BEAT, BECAUSE UNBEKNOWNST TO
BEAT, BECAUSE UNBEKNOWNST TO THEETTE OR THES AT THAT TIME,
THEETTE OR THES AT THAT TIME, THAT REPORTER HAD ONCE TAKEN
THAT REPORTER HAD ONCE TAKEN SOME BOXING TICKETS OFF TRUMP,
SOME BOXING TICKETS OFF TRUMP, TICKETS SPECIFICALLY TO THE
TICKETS SPECIFICALLY TO THE EVANDER HOLYFIELD/GEORGE FOREMAN
EVANDER HOLYFIELD/GEORGE FOREMAN FIGHT THAT YEAR IN ATLANTIC
FIGHT THAT YEAR IN ATLANTIC CITY.
CITY. EDITORS AT THE "WALL STREET
EDITORS AT THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL" FOUND OUT THAT THEIR
JOURNAL" FOUND OUT THAT THEIR REPORTER HAD DONE THAT, HAD
REPORTER HAD DONE THAT, HAD TAKEN THOSE TICKETS WHEN TRUMP
TAKEN THOSE TICKETS WHEN TRUMP HIMSELF CALLED THE EDITORS OF
HIMSELF CALLED THE EDITORS OF THE PAPER TO COMPLAIN ABOUT
THE PAPER TO COMPLAIN ABOUT THEIR NEGATIVE NEWS COVERAGE OF
THEIR NEGATIVE NEWS COVERAGE OF HIM.
HIM. HAVING COMPROMISED THIS REPORTER
HAVING COMPROMISED THIS REPORTER BY SLIPPING HIM SOME BOXING
BY SLIPPING HIM SOME BOXING TICKETS THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO
TICKETS THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO KEEP SECRET FROM HIS BOSSES,
KEEP SECRET FROM HIS BOSSES, TRUMP DROPPED THE GUILLOTINE.
TRUMP DROPPED THE GUILLOTINE. HE NARCOTICED THE REPORTER AND
HE NARCOTICED THE REPORTER AND GOT THE DUDE TAKEN OFF THE
GOT THE DUDE TAKEN OFF THE REPORTING BEAT.
REPORTING BEAT. BLEH, RIGHT?
BLEH, RIGHT? IT’S GROSS.
IT’S GROSS. BOTH THE STORY THAT THEY WERE
BOTH THE STORY THAT THEY WERE INITIALLY REPORTING ON AND THAT
INITIALLY REPORTING ON AND THAT KIND OF MANAGEMENT OF THE PRESS
KIND OF MANAGEMENT OF THE PRESS THEREAFTER, I MEAN THAT WAS
THEREAFTER, I MEAN THAT WAS 1990, 1991.
1990, 1991. BUT THAT’S THE BUBBLING TOXIC
BUT THAT’S THE BUBBLING TOXIC STEW WE ALL LIVE IN NOW WHEN IT
STEW WE ALL LIVE IN NOW WHEN IT COMES TO COVERING NOT JUST THIS
COMES TO COVERING NOT JUST THIS PRESIDENCY, BUT THE GOVERNMENT
PRESIDENCY, BUT THE GOVERNMENT HE NOW CONTROLS.
HE NOW CONTROLS. WHAT "THE TIMES" HAS DOCUMENTED
WHAT "THE TIMES" HAS DOCUMENTED IN THIS NEW BLOCKBUSTER PIECE OF
IN THIS NEW BLOCKBUSTER PIECE OF REPORTING ON TRUMP’S FINANCES IS
REPORTING ON TRUMP’S FINANCES IS THAT THAT SCUMMY LITTLE
THAT THAT SCUMMY LITTLE ANECDOTE, WHEN TRUMP’S DAD SENDS
ANECDOTE, WHEN TRUMP’S DAD SENDS IN A BAG MAN TO ILLEGALLY AND
IN A BAG MAN TO ILLEGALLY AND SECRETLY BAIL OUT HIS SON AND
SECRETLY BAIL OUT HIS SON AND EVADE TAXES, THAT WAS NOT A ONE
EVADE TAXES, THAT WAS NOT A ONE OFF THAT WAS EMBLEMATIC OF A
OFF THAT WAS EMBLEMATIC OF A PATTERN AND A PLAN THAT SHOWS US
PATTERN AND A PLAN THAT SHOWS US A WILDLY DIFFERENT STORY ABOUT
A WILDLY DIFFERENT STORY ABOUT THE PRESIDENT’S WEALTH AND HIS
THE PRESIDENT’S WEALTH AND HIS BUSINESS HISTORY THAN ANYTHING
BUSINESS HISTORY THAN ANYTHING HE HAS EVER ADMITTED TO
HE HAS EVER ADMITTED TO PUBLICLY.
PUBLICLY. IT ALSO APPEARS TO IMPLICATE
IT ALSO APPEARS TO IMPLICATE HIM, AS I MENTIONED, IN TAX
HIM, AS I MENTIONED, IN TAX EVASION, FRAUD, AND OTHER
EVASION, FRAUD, AND OTHER POTENTIAL CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR.
POTENTIAL CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR. PART OF THE REASON THIS BEHAVIOR
PART OF THE REASON THIS BEHAVIOR AND THIS LARGER PATTERN OF THE
AND THIS LARGER PATTERN OF THE PRESIDENT’S FINANCIAL HISTORY
PRESIDENT’S FINANCIAL HISTORY HASN’T COME TO LIGHT BEFORE NOW
HASN’T COME TO LIGHT BEFORE NOW IS BECAUSE "THE TIMES" SOMEHOW
IS BECAUSE "THE TIMES" SOMEHOW FOR THIS STORY OBTAINED HUNDREDS
FOR THIS STORY OBTAINED HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PREVIOUSLY
OF THOUSANDS OF PREVIOUSLY UNSEEN DOCUMENTS FROM THE TRUMP
UNSEEN DOCUMENTS FROM THE TRUMP FAMILY AND THEIR BUSINESSES AND
FAMILY AND THEIR BUSINESSES AND THEIR FINANCIAL ENTITIES.
THEIR FINANCIAL ENTITIES. NO, THEY STILL DID NOT GET
NO, THEY STILL DID NOT GET DONALD TRUMP’S PERSONAL TAX
DONALD TRUMP’S PERSONAL TAX RETURNS, BUT THEY APPARENTLY DID
RETURNS, BUT THEY APPARENTLY DID GET HIS DAD’S.
GET HIS DAD’S. AND REAMS AND REAMS AND REAMS OF
AND REAMS AND REAMS AND REAMS OF FAMILY BUSINESS DOCUMENTS BOTH
FAMILY BUSINESS DOCUMENTS BOTH FROM PUBLIC SOURCES AND ALSO
FROM PUBLIC SOURCES AND ALSO APPARENTLY FROM PRIVATE FILES.
APPARENTLY FROM PRIVATE FILES. SO THAT’S ONE REASON THIS STORY
SO THAT’S ONE REASON THIS STORY HAS NEVER COME TO LIGHT BEFORE,
HAS NEVER COME TO LIGHT BEFORE, THIS DOCUMENTATION HAS NEVER
THIS DOCUMENTATION HAS NEVER BEEN USED EDD JOURNALISTIST PURP
BEEN USED EDD JOURNALISTIST PURP BEFORE.
BEFORE. BUT THE OTHER REASON IT HASN’T
BUT THE OTHER REASON IT HASN’T BEEN TOLD IN THIS LEVEL OF
BEEN TOLD IN THIS LEVEL OF DETAIL IS BECAUSE WHAT "THE
DETAIL IS BECAUSE WHAT "THE TIMES" QUITE CANDIDLY DESCRIBES
TIMES" QUITE CANDIDLY DESCRIBES AS THE HISTORY OF TRUMP GETTING
AS THE HISTORY OF TRUMP GETTING UNCRITICAL PRESS COVERAGE,
UNCRITICAL PRESS COVERAGE, PARTICULARLY AROUND HIS
PARTICULARLY AROUND HIS FINANCES.
FINANCES. HE HAS NOT BEEN A FINANCIAL
HE HAS NOT BEEN A FINANCIAL GENIUS.
GENIUS. HE HAS NOT BEEN A GREAT DEAL
HE HAS NOT BEEN A GREAT DEAL MAKER.
MAKER. HE HAS NOT BEEN A GREAT BUSINESS
HE HAS NOT BEEN A GREAT BUSINESS MIND, BUT HE HAS BEEN GREAT AT
MIND, BUT HE HAS BEEN GREAT AT CONVINCING THE CREDULOUS PRESS
CONVINCING THE CREDULOUS PRESS TO DESCRIBE HIM AS SUCH OVER A
TO DESCRIBE HIM AS SUCH OVER A PERIOD OF DECADES.
PERIOD OF DECADES. AND THAT BIG BLUSTERY PR EFFORT
AND THAT BIG BLUSTERY PR EFFORT WAS EFFECTIVE AT DISGUISING THIS
WAS EFFECTIVE AT DISGUISING THIS BLATANT CON THAT HE PLAYED ON
BLATANT CON THAT HE PLAYED ON THE PUBLIC FOR YEARS, PRETENDING
THE PUBLIC FOR YEARS, PRETENDING TO BE SOME KIND OF SELF-MADE
TO BE SOME KIND OF SELF-MADE MILLIONAIRE OR EVEN SELF-MADE
MILLIONAIRE OR EVEN SELF-MADE BILLIONAIRE WHEN APPARENTLY HE
BILLIONAIRE WHEN APPARENTLY HE ISN’T ANYTHING OF THE SORT.
ISN’T ANYTHING OF THE SORT. HERE IS THE LEAD FROM "THE
HERE IS THE LEAD FROM "THE TIMES" TONIGHT.
TIMES" TONIGHT. QUOTE, PRESIDENT TRUMP
QUOTE, PRESIDENT TRUMP PARTICIPATED IN DUBIOUS TAX
PARTICIPATED IN DUBIOUS TAX SCHEMES DURING THE 1990s,
SCHEMES DURING THE 1990s, INCLUDING INCIDENTS OF OUTRIGHT
INCLUDING INCIDENTS OF OUTRIGHT FRAUD THAT GREATLY INCREASED THE
FRAUD THAT GREATLY INCREASED THE INHERITANCE FROM HIS PARENTS.
INHERITANCE FROM HIS PARENTS. HE HAS LONG INSISTED THAT HIS
HE HAS LONG INSISTED THAT HIS FATHER PROVIDED NO FINANCIAL
FATHER PROVIDED NO FINANCIAL HELP.
HELP. BUT "THE TIMES’" INVESTIGATION
BUT "THE TIMES’" INVESTIGATION BASED ON A VAST TROVE OF RECORDS
BASED ON A VAST TROVE OF RECORDS REVEALED THAT MR. TRUMP RECEIVED
REVEALED THAT MR. TRUMP RECEIVED THE EQUIVALENT TODAY OF $13413
THE EQUIVALENT TODAY OF $13413 MILLION FROM HIS FATHER’S REAL
MILLION FROM HIS FATHER’S REAL ESTATE EMPIRE STARTING FROM WHEN
ESTATE EMPIRE STARTING FROM WHEN HE WAS A TODDLER AND CONTINUING
HE WAS A TODDLER AND CONTINUING TO THIS DAY.
TO THIS DAY. QUOTE, IN EVERY ERA OF MR.
QUOTE, IN EVERY ERA OF MR. TRUMP’S LIFE, HIS FINANCES WERE
TRUMP’S LIFE, HIS FINANCES WERE DEEPLY INTERTWINED WITH AND
DEEPLY INTERTWINED WITH AND DEPENDENT ON HIS FATHER’S
DEPENDENT ON HIS FATHER’S WEALTH.
WEALTH. BY AGE 3, MR. TRUMP WAS EARNING
BY AGE 3, MR. TRUMP WAS EARNING $200,000 A YEAR IN TODAY’S
$200,000 A YEAR IN TODAY’S DOLLARS FROM HIS FATHER’S
DOLLARS FROM HIS FATHER’S EMPIRE.
EMPIRE. HE WAS A MILLIONAIRE BY AGE 8.
HE WAS A MILLIONAIRE BY AGE 8. SOON AFTER MR. TRUMP GRADUATED
SOON AFTER MR. TRUMP GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE, HE WAS RECEIVING
FROM COLLEGE, HE WAS RECEIVING THE EQUIVALENT OF A MILLION
THE EQUIVALENT OF A MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR FROM HIS FATHER.
DOLLARS A YEAR FROM HIS FATHER. THE MONEY INCREASED WITH THE
THE MONEY INCREASED WITH THE YEARS TO MORE THAN $5 MILLION
YEARS TO MORE THAN $5 MILLION ANNUALLY IN HIS 40s AND 50s.
ANNUALLY IN HIS 40s AND 50s. FRED TRUMP, DONALD TRUMP’S
FRED TRUMP, DONALD TRUMP’S FATHER WAS RELENTLESS AND
FATHER WAS RELENTLESS AND CREATIVE IN FINDING WAYS TO
CREATIVE IN FINDING WAYS TO CHANNEL HIS WEALTH TO HIS
CHANNEL HIS WEALTH TO HIS CHILDREN.
CHILDREN. HE MADE DONALD NOT JUST HIS
HE MADE DONALD NOT JUST HIS SALARIED EMPLOYEE BUT HIS
SALARIED EMPLOYEE BUT HIS PROPERTY MANAGER, HIS LANDLORD
PROPERTY MANAGER, HIS LANDLORD AND CONSULTANT.
AND CONSULTANT. HE GAY HIM LOAN AFTER LOAN,
HE GAY HIM LOAN AFTER LOAN, WHICH WHICH WERE NEVER REPAID.
WHICH WHICH WERE NEVER REPAID. MONEY FOR HIS CAR, MONEY FOR
MONEY FOR HIS CAR, MONEY FOR EMPLOYEES, MONEY TO BUY STOCKS,
EMPLOYEES, MONEY TO BUY STOCKS, MONEY FOR HIS FIRST MANHATTAN
MONEY FOR HIS FIRST MANHATTAN OFFICES AND MONEY TO RENOVATE
OFFICES AND MONEY TO RENOVATE THOSE OFFICE.
THOSE OFFICE. HE GAVE DONALD TRUMP THREE TRUST
HE GAVE DONALD TRUMP THREE TRUST FUNDS.
FUNDS. HE GAVE HIM SHARES IN MULTIPLE
HE GAVE HIM SHARES IN MULTIPLE PARTNERSHIPS.
PARTNERSHIPS. GAVE HIM $10,000 CHECKS AT
GAVE HIM $10,000 CHECKS AT CHRISTMAS TIME.
CHRISTMAS TIME. HE GAVE HIM LAUNDRY REVENUE FROM
HE GAVE HIM LAUNDRY REVENUE FROM HIS BUILDINGS.
HIS BUILDINGS. BUT BEING A YOUNG MAN WHO WAS
BUT BEING A YOUNG MAN WHO WAS JUST LIVING OFF HIS DAD’S
JUST LIVING OFF HIS DAD’S CONSIDERABLE WEALTH, JUST BEING
CONSIDERABLE WEALTH, JUST BEING ON THE RECEIVING END OF HIS DAD
ON THE RECEIVING END OF HIS DAD GIVING HIM TONS AND TONS OF
GIVING HIM TONS AND TONS OF MONEY AND PAYING FOR EVERYTHING
MONEY AND PAYING FOR EVERYTHING IN HIS LIFE, THAT APPARENTLY WAS
IN HIS LIFE, THAT APPARENTLY WAS NOT THE PUBLIC IMAGE THAT TRUMP
NOT THE PUBLIC IMAGE THAT TRUMP WANTED FOR HIMSELF OR THAT
WANTED FOR HIMSELF OR THAT TRUMP’S DAD WANTED FOR HIS SON.
TRUMP’S DAD WANTED FOR HIS SON. AND SO THE SELLING OF A CONTRARY
AND SO THE SELLING OF A CONTRARY AND UNTRUE PUBLIC IMAGE ABOUT
AND UNTRUE PUBLIC IMAGE ABOUT DONALD TRUMP HIMSELF BEING SOME
DONALD TRUMP HIMSELF BEING SOME SORT OF SELF-MADE BUSINESS
SORT OF SELF-MADE BUSINESS MAVEN, THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
MAVEN, THAT IS SOMETHING THAT TRUMP ORCHESTRATED, BUT THE
TRUMP ORCHESTRATED, BUT THE PRESS REALLY HELPED HIM OUT.
PRESS REALLY HELPED HIM OUT. HE COULDN’T HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT
HE COULDN’T HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT THEM.
THEM. SAND THIS IS WHERE "THE TIMES"
SAND THIS IS WHERE "THE TIMES" GETS VERY CANDID, EVEN ABOUT ITS
GETS VERY CANDID, EVEN ABOUT ITS OWN ROLE IN ITS PART ABOUT THIS
OWN ROLE IN ITS PART ABOUT THIS PUBLIC LIE ABOUT DONALD TRUMP.
PUBLIC LIE ABOUT DONALD TRUMP. QUOTE, HE’S TALL, LEAN AND BLOND
QUOTE, HE’S TALL, LEAN AND BLOND WITH DAZZLING WHITE TEETH AND HE
WITH DAZZLING WHITE TEETH AND HE LOOKS EVER SO MUCH LIKE ROBERT
LOOKS EVER SO MUCH LIKE ROBERT REDFORD.
REDFORD. HE RIDES AROUND TOWN IN A
HE RIDES AROUND TOWN IN A CHAUFFEURED CADILLAC WITH HIS
CHAUFFEURED CADILLAC WITH HIS INITIALS ON THE PLATES.
INITIALS ON THE PLATES. EDATES SLINKY FASHION MODELS,
EDATES SLINKY FASHION MODELS, BELONGS TO THE MOST ELEGANT
BELONGS TO THE MOST ELEGANT CLUBS, AND AT ONLY 30 YEARS OF
CLUBS, AND AT ONLY 30 YEARS OF AGE ESTIMATES HE IS WORTH MORE
AGE ESTIMATES HE IS WORTH MORE THAN $200 MILLION.
THAN $200 MILLION. SO BEGAN A NOVEMBER 1, 1976
SO BEGAN A NOVEMBER 1, 1976 ARTICLE IN "THE TIMES," ONE OF
ARTICLE IN "THE TIMES," ONE OF THE FIRST MAJOR PROFILES OF
THE FIRST MAJOR PROFILES OF DONALD TRUMP AND A CORNERSTONE
DONALD TRUMP AND A CORNERSTONE OF DECADES OF MYTH MAKING ABOUT
OF DECADES OF MYTH MAKING ABOUT HIS WEALTH.
HIS WEALTH. HOW CAN HE CLAIM TO BE WORTH
HOW CAN HE CLAIM TO BE WORTH MORE THAN $200 MILLION WHEN HE
MORE THAN $200 MILLION WHEN HE WOULD DIVULGE LATER TO CASINO
WOULD DIVULGE LATER TO CASINO REGULATORS THAT HIS TAXABLE
REGULATORS THAT HIS TAXABLE INCOME THAT YEAR IN 1976 WAS
INCOME THAT YEAR IN 1976 WAS ACTUALLY $24,594 FOR THE FULL
ACTUALLY $24,594 FOR THE FULL YEAR?
YEAR? BUT THE TIMES IN 1976 APPARENTLY
BUT THE TIMES IN 1976 APPARENTLY BOUGHT IT HOOK, LINE AND SINKER,
BOUGHT IT HOOK, LINE AND SINKER, AND THEN THEY TURNED AROUND AND
AND THEN THEY TURNED AROUND AND SOLD TO IT PUBLIC.
SOLD TO IT PUBLIC. QUOTE, IN THE CHAUFFEURED
QUOTE, IN THE CHAUFFEURED CADILLAC, DONALD TRUMP TOOK "THE
CADILLAC, DONALD TRUMP TOOK "THE TIMES’" REPORTER ON A TOUR OF
TIMES’" REPORTER ON A TOUR OF WHAT HE CALLED JOBS CHS HE TOLD
WHAT HE CALLED JOBS CHS HE TOLD HER ABOUT THE MANHATTAN HOTEL HE
HER ABOUT THE MANHATTAN HOTEL HE PLANNED TO CONVERT INTO A GRAND
PLANNED TO CONVERT INTO A GRAND HYATT.
HYATT. HIS FATHER GRARNTED THE
HIS FATHER GRARNTED THE CONSTRUCTION LOAN.
CONSTRUCTION LOAN. HE TOOK HER TO THE HUDSON RIVER
HE TOOK HER TO THE HUDSON RIVER RAIL YARDS THAT HE PLANNED TO
RAIL YARDS THAT HE PLANNED TO DEVELOP.
DEVELOP. THE RIGHTS WERE PURCHASED BY HIS
THE RIGHTS WERE PURCHASED BY HIS FATHER’S COMPANY.
FATHER’S COMPANY. HE SHOWED THE REPORTER, QUOTE,
HE SHOWED THE REPORTER, QUOTE, OUR PHILANTHROPIC ENDEAVOR, THE
OUR PHILANTHROPIC ENDEAVOR, THE HIGH-RISE FOR THE ELDERLY IN
HIGH-RISE FOR THE ELDERLY IN EAST ORANGE, NEW JERSEY THAT TOO
EAST ORANGE, NEW JERSEY THAT TOO WAS BANKROLLED BY HIS FATHER.
WAS BANKROLLED BY HIS FATHER. ALSO, AN APARTMENT COMPLEX ON
ALSO, AN APARTMENT COMPLEX ON STATEN ISLAND, WHICH WAS OWNED
STATEN ISLAND, WHICH WAS OWNED BY HIS FATHER.
BY HIS FATHER. WHAT HE CALLED THEIR, QUOTE,
WHAT HE CALLED THEIR, QUOTE, FLAGSHIP TRUMP VILLAGE IN
FLAGSHIP TRUMP VILLAGE IN BROOKLYN, THAT TOO WAS OWNED BY
BROOKLYN, THAT TOO WAS OWNED BY HIS FATHER.
HIS FATHER. AND FINALLY, BEACHHAVEN
AND FINALLY, BEACHHAVEN APARTMENTS WHICH WERE ALSO OWNED
APARTMENTS WHICH WERE ALSO OWNED BY HIS FATHER.
BY HIS FATHER. EVEN THE CADILLAC WAS LEASED BY
EVEN THE CADILLAC WAS LEASED BY HIS FATHER.
HIS FATHER. BUT HE DIDN’T TALK ABOUT HIS
BUT HE DIDN’T TALK ABOUT HIS FATHER’S OWNERSHIP OF ANY OF
FATHER’S OWNERSHIP OF ANY OF THOSE THINGS.
THOSE THINGS. HE PASSED IT ALL OFF AS HIS OWN,
HE PASSED IT ALL OFF AS HIS OWN, AND THEN HE BOASTED TO "THE
AND THEN HE BOASTED TO "THE TIMES" AND THEY DUTIFULLY
TIMES" AND THEY DUTIFULLY PRINTED, SO FAR I’VE NEVER MADE
PRINTED, SO FAR I’VE NEVER MADE A BAD DEAL.
A BAD DEAL. AS "THE TIMES" CONCLUDES TODAY,
AS "THE TIMES" CONCLUDES TODAY, NOW KNOWING THAT EVERYTHING HE
NOW KNOWING THAT EVERYTHING HE WAS PASSING OFF AS HIS OWN WAS
WAS PASSING OFF AS HIS OWN WAS ACTUALLY OWNED BY HIS DAD, "THE
ACTUALLY OWNED BY HIS DAD, "THE TIMES" CONCLUDES TODAY, QUOTE,
TIMES" CONCLUDES TODAY, QUOTE, IT WAS A SPECTACULAR CON.
IT WAS A SPECTACULAR CON. AND THEY’VE GOT ALL THIS
AND THEY’VE GOT ALL THIS DETAILED REPORTING THAT JUST
DETAILED REPORTING THAT JUST MAKES THE STORY GET WORSE AND
MAKES THE STORY GET WORSE AND WORSE AND WORSE.
WORSE AND WORSE. QUOTE, WEEKS AFTER "THE TIMES’S"
QUOTE, WEEKS AFTER "THE TIMES’S" PROFILE RAN, TRUMP SET UP STILL
PROFILE RAN, TRUMP SET UP STILL MORE TRUST FOR HIS CHILDREN,
MORE TRUST FOR HIS CHILDREN, SEEDING EACH WITH TODAY’S
SEEDING EACH WITH TODAY’S EQUIVALENT OF $3.4 MILLION.
EQUIVALENT OF $3.4 MILLION. EVEN WHEN TRUMP WAS ALREADY
EVEN WHEN TRUMP WAS ALREADY PROCLAIMING HIMSELF ONE OF
PROCLAIMING HIMSELF ONE OF AMERICA’S RICHEST MAN, HE WAS
AMERICA’S RICHEST MAN, HE WAS STILL ON HIS FATHER’S PAYROLL,
STILL ON HIS FATHER’S PAYROLL, DRAWING A SALARY OF 26$26 O,000.
DRAWING A SALARY OF 26$26 O,000. FRED AND HIS COMPANY BEGAN
FRED AND HIS COMPANY BEGAN EXTENDING LARGE LOANS OF CREDIT
EXTENDING LARGE LOANS OF CREDIT TO TRUMP.
TO TRUMP. WHEN HE BORROWED IN JANUARY FROM
WHEN HE BORROWED IN JANUARY FROM HIS DAD $1.5 MILLION.
HIS DAD $1.5 MILLION. IN FEBRUARY, $65,000.
IN FEBRUARY, $65,000. IN MARCH, $122,000.
IN MARCH, $122,000. IN APRIL, $150,000.
IN APRIL, $150,000. IN MAY, $192,000.
IN MAY, $192,000. IN JUNE, $226,000.
IN JUNE, $226,000. IN JULY, $2.4 MILLION.
IN JULY, $2.4 MILLION. AND IN AUGUST, 40,000.
AND IN AUGUST, 40,000. HE BORROWED ALL OF THAT MONEY
HE BORROWED ALL OF THAT MONEY MONTH AFTER MONTH AFTER MONTH
MONTH AFTER MONTH AFTER MONTH AFTER MONTH, ALL FROM HIS DAD.
AFTER MONTH, ALL FROM HIS DAD. QUOTE, IN THEORY THE MONEY HAD
QUOTE, IN THEORY THE MONEY HAD TO BE REPAID.
TO BE REPAID. IN PRACTICE, RECORDS SHOW MANY
IN PRACTICE, RECORDS SHOW MANY OF THESE LOANS WERE MORE LIKE
OF THESE LOANS WERE MORE LIKE GIFTS.
GIFTS. BUT THE COLUMN OF BUNDLED NERVES
BUT THE COLUMN OF BUNDLED NERVES THAT RUNS DOWN THE SPINE OF THIS
THAT RUNS DOWN THE SPINE OF THIS STORY IS NOT JUST THAT TRUMP
STORY IS NOT JUST THAT TRUMP TOOK OVER $400 MILLION FROM HIS
TOOK OVER $400 MILLION FROM HIS FATHER AND LIED FOR DECADES
FATHER AND LIED FOR DECADES ABOUT HAVING BUILT SOME SORT OF
ABOUT HAVING BUILT SOME SORT OF BUSINESS EMPIRE ON HIS OWN WHEN
BUSINESS EMPIRE ON HIS OWN WHEN REALLY WHAT HE WAS DOING FOR
REALLY WHAT HE WAS DOING FOR DECADES WAS JUST CASHING HIS
DECADES WAS JUST CASHING HIS DAD’S CHECKS, THE STUFF THAT
DAD’S CHECKS, THE STUFF THAT RINGS LIKE A BELL IN THIS
RINGS LIKE A BELL IN THIS REPORTING, NOT JUST FOR WHAT YOU
REPORTING, NOT JUST FOR WHAT YOU MIGHT HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT DONALD
MIGHT HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT DONALD TRUMP IN THE PAST, BE FOR HIM
TRUMP IN THE PAST, BE FOR HIM NOW, IT’S NOT JUST ABOUT THE
NOW, IT’S NOT JUST ABOUT THE LYING AND THE FALSE PUBLIC
LYING AND THE FALSE PUBLIC PERSONA THAT BECAME HIS
PERSONA THAT BECAME HIS POLITICAL PERSONA WHEN HE
POLITICAL PERSONA WHEN HE DECIDED TO TURN IT INTO THAT.
DECIDED TO TURN IT INTO THAT. THE TOUGH STUFF HERE IS ABOUT
THE TOUGH STUFF HERE IS ABOUT CRIME.
CRIME. IT’S ABOUT POTENTIAL CRIMINAL
IT’S ABOUT POTENTIAL CRIMINAL FRAUD AND CRIMINAL TAX EVASION
FRAUD AND CRIMINAL TAX EVASION AND BEING ON THE HOOK FOR THAT